# TWEETER

## What's Elon Musk up to now?

Lets find out!  Today we will be making a `Twitter` like clone to practice
creating routes, templates, and forms with `Flask`, `Jinja`, and `WTForms`!

There is a starter file for this project, which has the following:

1. Pipfile with a few dependencies already defined.

2. Templates folder with a few Jinja templates.

3. Static folder with some CSS.

4. `tweets.py` which has your tweet seed data


This project has 4 Phases, each with its own starter code.  The starter code for Phase 2 is also the solution code for Phase 1, and the same with Phases 3 and 4.  Please do not look at the solution until you have completed the corresponding phase üôèüèº



## PHASE 1 - FLASK Setup

Lets get that flask server up and running!


1. The starter already has `flask` and `python-dotenv` dependencies in its
   pipfile, so we just need to run `pipenv install` to get those dependencies
   installed and our `.venv` folder created üëçüèº.  **REMINDER!  You want to cd
   into the starter folder before doing any installs, and then create all new
   files in the starter folder**


2. Next let's make our 2 environment files, a `.flaskenv` file to hold our
   public environmental variables like FLASK_APP and FlASK_DEBUG and then a
   `.env` file to hold our sensitive environmental variables like our SECRET_KEY
   (and eventually our DATABASE_URL).


3. Next let's set up our `config.py` to store all of our environmental variables
   imports (it should go in the `app` folder).  It should be a `Config` class
   with the SECRET_KEY being set as a class attribute (HINT: will need to import
   os and use that module to get the necessary environmental variables)


4. Last step for this phase!  Time to create a __init__.py in our app folder to
   house the instance of our flask app.  We want to import our `Config` class we
   just made, as well as flask, and then we will want to create an instance of
   Flask.  We will also want to configure our Flask instance with the `Config`
   class we imported.



When you have completed this phase, you should be able to start up your flask
server successfully using `pipenv run flask run` and provide an additional `-p
5001` if you need to start it on a port other than the default of 5000.  If you
navigate to the app in the browser you will see a "Not Found" error, as we have
not made any routes yet!



## PHASE 2 - Routes & Templates


Now that we have a server up and running, let's make some routes!


1. Lets start by making a home or index route!  This route should have the URL
   path of `'/'`and should randomly pick a tweet from the `tweets` dictionary in
   the `tweets.py` file. (might want to check out the random module if your
   don't remember the method to use)  Once a random tweet has been selected, we
   want to render a template using the already created `index.html` template in
   the `templates` folder (remember to send the tweet along to the template).
   You should see output in the browser like the following if all is done
   correctly (might see a different tweet as that part is random)
![Index
Route](https://appacademy-open-assets.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/Modular-Curriculum/content/week-18/tweeter-phase2-1.png)
Note how we did not need to install `Jinja2` at all, since it is a dependency of
flask!


2. So our index route works, but wow is it in need of some styling, and maybe
navigation?  Luckily, there is a `base.html` in our templates folder that has a
nav bar and is already linked to a stylesheet!  All we need to do is set up our
`index.html` to inherit from the `base.html`, and we will be looking at some
pretty colors!  Check out the browser and our home route should look like the
following if all is done correctly (again might see a different tweet as that
part is random) ![Index Route
Styled](https://appacademy-open-assets.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/Modular-Curriculum/content/week-18/tweeter-phase2-2.png)


3. A random tweet is nice and all for a home page, but we want more of a feed
   that is going to display all the tweets we have, so lets start on that route!

    a. Let's make a route at the URL path of `'/feed'` that will get all of the
    tweets, and then send them to the `feed.html` template that is already
    created in the `templates` folder.

    b. The `feed.html` template is going to need some work, lets start of by
    having it inherit from the `base.html` template, like we did for our home
    route.  Now at least it should look pretty!

    c. We are not just sending a single tweet like we did on the home route, we
    are sending a whole list, so we will need to iterate through the list in the
    template.  What we want displayed in each tweet can be the same as our home
    page, so it should look like this (the below code snippet is how you should
    display a single tweet, but you will need to add the code to iterate through
    all the tweets):

    ```html
        <div class="tweet">
            <p>{{ tweet.author }} tweeted on {{ tweet.date }} ...</p>
            <p>"{{ tweet.tweet }}"</p>
            <p>Likes: {{ tweet.likes / 1000}}k</p>
        </div>
    ```

    **Make sure the "tweet" is in the div with the class name "tweet" and the
    div with the class name "feed_container" is outside you loop to make the
    completed template look the same as other styles in the site.**

    d. If a tweet has more than 525k likes, lets make the `Likes` orange instead
    of being plain white!  Add a conditional to the `feed.html` template to take
    care of this.


    If everything was done right, you should be able to see something like this
    in your browser: ![Feed
    Route](https://appacademy-open-assets.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/Modular-Curriculum/content/week-18/tweeter-phase2-3.png)


## Phase 3 - Setting up a form class

So now we get a random tweet on our home page, and our feed is filled with great
tweets, what else could we want with our site?  We probably want to let users
make new tweets?


1. We are going to need a few more dependencies to get a form up and working, so
   lets run the following: `pipenv install wtforms flask-wtf` to get `WTForms`
   and its helper dependency `flask-wtf` installed.


2. We will want to make a `form` folder, and then in that folder a `form.py`
   file to store our tweet form. Create a Tweet form class and form fields for
   author, tweet, and a submit button.  The author and tweet fields should both
   be strings and be required.  Label the submit button "Create Tweet".
   Reminder that forms need several imports üëçüèº

3. Now lets start working on a route for this form!  We will want to start with
   the GET route for a URL path of `'/new'` and we will certainly need to import
   our new form, so we can instantiate it inside our route.  We will also want
   to create a new html template for our form called `'new_tweet.html'`, but
   before we jump to that, make sure to render the new template, and to pass
   form to that template.

4. The `'new_tweet.html'` form should inherit from `'base.html'` so it will get
   some CSS.  Some sort of header would be nice on this page.  You can set up
   the form fields anyway you like, `div`'s or `p` tags are usually preferred.
   Don't forget your CSRF protection!  If you give the `form` tag a
   `class="tweet"` attribute, it will look a whole lot nicer in the browser!


If you take a peek in the browser, your new form should look something like
this, depending on how you set up the fields.  If you try to submit the form,
nothing should happen because we still need to set up the post route! ![Form
Route](https://appacademy-open-assets.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/Modular-Curriculum/content/week-18/tweeter-phase3.png)


## PHASE 4 - Make some tweets!

The finish line is in sight!  We just need to save the posts from our form!

1. Lets get back to the `'/new'` route and add in some POST functionality!  Make
   sure to set up conditional logic for your `form.validate_on_submit()` and
   `form.errors`.

    a. As far as creating a new tweet, your `id` can be the length of the tweets
    list.  The `author` and `tweet` fields need to be populated from the form
    data.  The `date` can just be generated at the time of the post (check out
    the datetime module, it should just be the date, no need for times). Lastly
    the `likes` attribute should be set to 0 or you can randomly generate a
    value for it. (the templates do divide likes by 1,000 and add a 'k'
    afterwards, Mr Musk has a decent amount of followers...)  Make sure to add
    that new tweet to the list of tweets when you are done!

    b. If we successfully made a new tweet, we should redirect the user to the
    `feed` page so they can see their new tweet!

    c. If for some reason we had errors on the form submission, we should return
    those to the browser.


If you can make new tweets and they show up in the feed, then you are all done
with this project!  Unless you are bold and want to try to tackles some of these
bonuses? üí™üèª


## BONUS

Feeling pretty good about your 'Tweeter' app?  But can you take it further?
Here are some things to try out!

1. Our feed is not in order, it should display 'tweets' in order from most
   recent to least recent, but it is being displayed by ID.  If only we could
   get this `sorted` out...

2. How do those dates look?  If you used something like `date.today()` to create
   new dates, you should have gotten the date, but not in the same format as the
   'seed' tweets, can we fix that?

3. Would be pretty cool if we could actually like some of the tweets, right?
   And what if we changed our minds and wanted to un-like them?
